(tranquil guitar
music playing)
(singing) ♪ And I tried to
write a symphony ♪
♪ But I lost the melody ♪
♪ Alas I only finished half ♪
♪ And finish I suppose
I never may ♪
♪ Anyway I love you ♪
♪ That's all I have
to tell you ♪
♪ That's all I've got to say ♪
♪ That's all I've ♪
♪ Got to ♪
♪ Say ♪
(cheering)
Thank you, thank you,
thank you, thank you.
-C'mon, one more!
-No, no, no. No, that's it.
That's it, I can't. I can't, my
fingers are too full of beer.
They barely work as it is.
-Well, finish the job.
-Thanks, man.
Hey, uh, this is why I love
hosting parties,
'cause you can drink and
you don't have to go anywhere.
-Cheers.
-ALL: Cheers!
(slow jazz playing)
ISAAC:
Hello, Ensign.
Hello.
ISAAC: May I speak with you
for a moment?
Sorry, busy having fun.
Rough burn, man.
ISAAC: I have been attempting
to converse with Ensign Burke
for some time.
However, my overtures have been
largely declined thus far.
Yeah, that's going to be
a tough one, Isaac,
and I don't have
to tell you why.
ISAAC: My command of the nuances
of discourse
would seem to be deficient.
Ah, don't beat yourself up.
ISAAC:
It is an elusive skill.
How does one begin
a conversation
with a biological life form?
L-like in general?
ISAAC: Yes.
Uh, there's no simple
answer to that,
but I guess a good
place to start
is to ask the other person
about themselves.
People like it when you take
an interest in their lives.
ISAAC:
Please clarify.
Well, it could be anything.
Ask them do they
play any sports,
what kind of music do they like?
What are some of their hobbies?
Give them a compliment
on their haircut.
Whatever you could think of.
It's really not that hard
once you get the hang of it.
♪♪
Hey, Gordon, what's this?
Oh.
It's a... it's a cellphone.
A what?
It's a communication device
from the early 21st century.
Wow. Is it real?
Nah. It's a replicated version
of a real one they found
in a time capsule on Earth.
Belonged to a woman named
Laura Huggins.
Here, I'll show you.
-Is that her?
-Yeah.
She was really pretty.
She was, yeah.
You know, you can learn a lot
about the people of
that time period
from one of these things.
I learned a lot about her.
Had the computer replicate this
as a... sort of memento.
To keep her in my thoughts.
You talk like you
knew this girl.
Kind of feel like I did.
Want to take a selfie?
A what?
Something I learned
from Laura.
Thank you for the invitation
to your party, Lieutenant.
I must be going.
Oh, here, wait, before you go.
Get in this.
Okay, everybody, big
smiles, okay? Big smiles.
Here we go.
(shutter clicks)
(tranquil music playing)
Essentially, it's two major
breakthroughs
for the price of one.
And I mean major.
First off, the projection radius
of the field
is about three orders
of magnitude
greater than Dr. Aronov's
original device.
Which means what?
Which means
the temporal field expansion
could theoretically
encompass an entire ship.
That's... a significant
upgrade.
Hey, man, what's goin' on?
We were supposed to have lunch.
Ah, sorry, man, I
got sidetracked.
Well, we doin' it?
I can't. I'll owe you one?
All right, well, I'm starving.
KELLY GRAYSON: You said there
were two breakthroughs.
Egg salad sandwich.
ISAAC: We have managed
to increase
the temporal resolution
of the field.
In other words, we can tune
the field down
to the exact millisecond.
Oh, Gordon, uh, can I borrow
your sandwich?
Sure.
Now, in ten seconds,
I'm going to send this sandwich
exactly ten seconds
into the past.
(energy pulsing)
-Where'd that come from?
-JOHN LAMARR: The future.
Now watch.
You just sent that sandwich
into the past,
and that's why it appeared
ten seconds ago.
Boom.
Well, why wouldn't
you just keep it?
Then you could have
two sandwiches instead of one.
ISAAC: If Commander Lamarr
had not followed through
with his intent to send the
sandwich into the past,
it would have caused
a temporal paradox.
In which case
an entirely new universe
would've branched off
from this one,
all because of a sandwich.
Makes your head hurt.
Hey, wait! (snaps fingers)
I got an idea!
Can you send that
three months into the future?
Yeah, why?
Because three months from now,
it'll appear,
and that'll be a nice surprise.
Okay.
(energy pulsing)
Aw, I'm excited. I can't wait
to eat that sandwich.
Well, as novel as this is,
it also means the Aronov device
just became a lot more potent.
The Admirals should
be notified.
It's undeniable they've
achieved
something extraordinary,
but I have to admit,
I wish they hadn't.
March of progress.
Can't stop it.
The weaponization
of time travel
has always been the
unthinkable horror.
If the Krill or the Kaylon
ever achieved it,
they could skip the galactic
brinksmanship
and simply destroy the Union
at its inception.
How do you want
us to handle it?
I'm going to recommend
the immediate dispatch
of a convoy to escort you
to the maximum security
research station
on Sabik Three.
You'll transfer the device and
all data over to their care.
John's gonna weep.
He's losing his favorite toy.
That toy is gonna be
a hell of a lot safer there.
I'll contact you
soon. Perry out.
(suspenseful music playing)
Captain, we're being hailed
by the California.
It's Admiral Ozawa.
Put her on.
Go ahead, Admiral.
Captain, we've been hailing
the station
for the past five minutes.
There's no response.
-Talla.
-Doing it now.
Hailing on every channel.
No answer.
I'm ordering all ships
to increase speed to maximum.
We'll stay with you.
Ozawa out.
I have a bad feeling
about this.
(intense music playing)
Life signs?
ISAAC:
None, sir.
They found out we were coming.
(computer beeping)
Captain. A convoy
of Kaylon ships
is dropping out of quantum.
(intense music playing)
(theme song playing)
Evasive maneuvers,
pattern beta!
Aye, sir!
(explosion)
Deflectors down to 50%!
Full auxiliary power!
(explosion)
ISAAC: Kaylon interceptors
in pursuit.
ED MERCER: Gordon, pattern
delta five.
Aye, sir!
Navigational array is offline.
(explosion)
ISAAC: Explosive decompression
on decks E and F.
Sir, incoming message
from Admiral Ozawa.
Put her on!
All ships!
We're taking heavy losses!
I'm ordering a full retreat,
bearing 1-6-7 mark 12.
We'll try to lose them
in the Veil nebula.
-Gordon!
-On it!
(electronic buzzing)
Tractor beam has locked on!
Full reverse power.
No effect!
-Hail the Kaylon!
-Hailing!
KAYLON:
You will surrender the device.
Back off now
or we'll destroy it ourselves.
You will surrender the device
or you will die.
Prepare to be boarded.
Talla. Go to the lab.
Destroy the Aronov device.
Oh, god, hang onto something!
(Talla groans)
-Talla!
-Medical team to the bridge!
Ed, I'll go.
Do it, go! Charly,
take the helm.
Aye, sir!
(intense music playing)
-You sure you're all right?
-Yeah, I'll be fine.
ISAAC: Captain, Kaylon vessel
is activating docking clamps.
I can't shake us
loose, Captain!
-Options!
-ISAAC: Sir.
A forced overload of
the deflector array
could disrupt their
tractor beam.
Mercer to Lamarr!
We're gonna use the quantum core
to overload the deflectors!
On Isaac's command!
Aye, sir, rerouting power now!
(energy pulsing)
ISAAC:
Core output 60%.
Core output 76%.
98%.
Core overloading.
-We're loose!
-Get us out of here!
Bortus to Captain.
Still no sign of the Kaylon.
It is possible they have
given up their pursuit.
MERCER: All right,
keep me posted.
Mercer out.
And it's not possible he
was injured
during one of the blasts?
On his way back to the bridge?
I've done a full scan.
If he hit his head
and took a fall somewhere,
I'd know about it.
Captain, these magnetic
impedance readings,
they don't add up.
What do you mean?
Well, the residual
energy signature
makes it look like
the Aronov device
has been running at full power,
but it hasn't been
activated in days.
Could there have been
some sort of overload?
You mean could he have been
vaporized by a power surge?
No. No way.
The scans would pick up
any organic residue.
There's nothing.
Well then where
the hell is he?
-(comms beeps)
-BORTUS: Bridge to Captain.
Go ahead.
BORTUS:
We are... being hailed.
By who?
BORTUS:
By... Lieutenant Malloy.
(monitor beeping)
Where is it coming from?
ISAAC: The message appears
to have originated from Earth.
However, it is encoded
on a sub-quantum carrier wave,
calibrated to 3.7 times
the speed of light.
At such a velocity,
its time of transmission
would be...
approximately 400 years ago.
So it was calculated to reach
the Veil nebula from Earth
at exactly this point in time.
ISAAC:
Affirmative.
There is some degradation,
however the message
is largely intact.
GORDON MALLOY:
Malloy to Orville.
(background clatter, static)
I'm sending this message to you
from... the year 2015.
I've been here for six months,
and I'm... (static)
...in case it reaches you.
(static)
I-I've encoded my temporal
coordinates
within this message.
(static)
Uh... I'm trapped here.
...if you can.
I know it's a long shot,
but if you're able...
send help.
I miss you guys.
(static)
End transmission.
Gordon Malloy.
Pilot and flight engineer
for a private charter airline.
Died in Pasadena, California,
July 12th, 2068.
How did this happen?
Well, we think we know,
because in fact,
we've seen it before.
ISAAC:
As you will recall,
when Commander Grayson's
younger self
was transported to our time,
we were able to confirm
that human cognition
played a role
in the temporal displacement.
LAMARR: We think we're looking
at a similar explanation here.
The other night at the party,
Charly was asking Gordon
about the cellular phone
in his quarters.
Got him talking about Laura.
Now, we're still
just beginning to understand
the relationship between
temporal theory
and observer perception,
but the short of it is,
Gordon was close to
the Aronov device
when we overloaded
the deflectors.
The burst of energy
from the quantum drive
amplified the temporal field
before it collapsed,
and he got caught
in the displacement wave.
I might be off base, but my bet
is that his subconscious
picked that destination point:
the early 21st century.
So he's... trapped
in the past?
He was.
According to these records,
he lived and died back there.
So... if that's the case,
it must mean we weren't
able to save him.
She is correct.
We have already failed.
Not necessarily.
See, that's where
temporal mechanics gets muddy.
It's all in flux.
ISAAC: Our behavior is,
as yet, a variable.
Until and if we make the
attempt to rescue Lt. Malloy,
we are existing in
a superposition
of several possible timelines.
Then he can be rescued.
But... why is there any record
of him at all?
He knows the law.
If you find yourself
displaced in time,
you make yourself as invisible
as you can.
You do everything
in your power not to interfere.
Now that, I can't answer.
Is it possible for us to
go back and get him?
With the upgrades to
the Aronov device,
and the temporal coordinates
Gordon sent us in the message,
we got a shot.
But, it's gonna put
a hell of a strain
on the quantum drive.
He's calling out to
us from the past,
asking for our help.
And temporal law
compels us to try.
(sighs)
(contemplative music playing)
(suspenseful music playing)
Mercer to Lamarr. Report.
Ready here, Captain.
MERCER:
Isaac?
ISAAC:
Temporal coordinates
have been encoded and locked.
MERCER:
Initiate sequence.
Acknowledged.
(energetic music playing)
ISAAC: All power couplings
are linked.
Yaphit, ramp up the
dysonium injectors.
Take us to 100% flow-field
density.
Doing it.
Quantum core is at
maximum output.
Isaac, what's your status?
ISAAC: I will require
additional power
to increase chronon
energy levels.
Lamarr, give Isaac
as much as you can spare.
Diverting auxiliary power.
(energy pulsing)
ISAAC: Temporal field
is weakening.
The core's destabilizing!
All sections reporting
structural integrity alarms.
Captain, we're hitting
the ceiling down here!
-Isaac!
-ISAAC: Stand by.
Commander Lamarr,
transfer emergency
power reserves
to the quantum core on my mark.
Three, two, one,
mark.
(loud rumbling)
Isaac, talk to me.
ISAAC:
Captain, I believe we have
successfully made
the transition.
Let's find out.
Ensign Burke, set
course for Earth.
Aye, sir.
(dramatic music playing)
(tranquil music playing)
Sir, I'm picking up
old-style communication signals
on multiple radio frequencies.
Looks like we've arrived
in the right century.
Electromagnetic screens?
Functioning.
We are undetectable
to their surveillance
technology.
Let's play it safe.
Keep us on the far
side of the moon.
-(comms beeps)
-LAMARR: Lamarr to bridge.
Go ahead.
LAMARR:
I got some bad news.
The time jump ate up the last
of our dysonium reserves
before we reached the temporal
coordinates Gordon sent us.
-We didn't quite make it.
-What do you mean?
Talla confirmed this
is the 21st century.
It is, but our target
date was 2015.
We came up a little short.
According to our astrometric
scans... we're in 2025.
2025?
-So, Gordon...
-From Gordon's perspective,
he's been here for ten years.
Jesus.
I don't suppose we
can try again.
Sir, without dysonium,
we can't get back
to our own time from here.
Then we'll just have to
go down there and get him,
worry about how to
get back later.
ISAAC: Captain, in the early
22nd century,
deposits of dysonium
were discovered inside
Earth's mantle.
However, at this current
point in time,
they remain untouched.
I believe we may be able to
extract a sufficient quantity
using a remotely directed
geodetic probe.
All right. Kelly and I will
go after Gordon, bring him home.
John, you'll get the dysonium.
Make every effort to avoid--
Captain, I'm not trying
to shirk duty here,
but we just put this
ship through hell.
Alright, there are about
a thousand systems on board
that need to be inspected and
repaired just to stay afloat,
including life support.
Well, is there anyone
on your engineering team
who's up to it?
There's one guy
who could do it
a hell of a lot faster
and more efficiently than I can.
Who?
You're lookin' at him.
Isaac?
ISAAC: Commander Lamarr
is correct.
I am able to direct
a geodetic probe
with greater precision
than a biological.
However, its course will need
to be plotted in real time,
with the proper adjustments,
to ensure minimal geological
disruption
now and in the future.
You make a wrong turn,
you could displace a fault line
that causes an earthquake
20 years in the future.
You basically gotta drill
while you're calculating
trajectories
in multiple dimensions.
ISAAC: I will require the
assistance of Ensign Burke.
(sighs) I'm gonna ask
a pretty basic question here.
How the hell is Isaac
supposed to walk around
21st-century Earth?
(suspenseful music playing)
CHARLY BURKE:
Navigation and flight controls
are on-line and ready
for launch.
Cloaking system is standing by.
Looks like there's
a lot of air traffic down there.
Reporting for duty, sir.
(sighs)
I still say this
is a bad idea.
Those things screwed us
on that Krill ship.
It's our only option.
Come on. Let's go.
-(hydraulics whirring)
-(Charly sighs)
All set for departure.
Take us out.
(epic music playing)
I have accessed their airspace
control network.
Uploading locations
and flight vectors
for all air vehicles
within a 1,000-kilometer radius.
Great. At least we
won't hit a plane.
Do you play any sports?
♪♪
(hydraulics whirring)
Okay. We all know
we're threading a needle here.
Avoid any unnecessary
temporal footprints,
but complete the mission
at all costs.
Simple as that.
All right, let's go.
(contemplative music playing)
(jet engine idling)
(engines powering down)
You want those TKS panels
installed in the Hawker?
Yeah. If it's good
to go by tomorrow,
we can put it back in service
by the fifth.
Got it.
(exhales)
Hey, Gordo, you expecting
clients?
No, why?
Gordon.
My god.
How are you?
I'm...
I can't believe this
is happening.
You're here.
You're actually...
You're actually here.
Yeah. About ten
years too late.
Are you okay?
I'm...
I'm fine, yeah.
I just... I can't
believe it's you.
I'm so sorry it
took us so long.
I just never expected
to see you guys again.
Well, we're here now.
And we're gonna try
and make it home.
Home?
Yes.
Can we take a ride?
Somebody already
had "Orville" with an R.
I was so pissed.
"O-ville" was the best
that I could do.
Sounds like a shitty band.
(sniffs) What's that smell?
Oh sorry, Right Guard.
(laughs) I was late
for work today,
I had to get ready in the car.
Accidentally popped the
top off the can.
It sprayed everywhere.
Seems like you've...
acclimated to this century.
Yeah. Y'know, this time period
gets a bad rap,
but there's a lot
to like about it
if you look hard enough.
Like what?
Well, you know, it's like
watching your little brother
make a bunch
of stupid mistakes.
Yeah, he's an idiot now,
but you can see him learning,
and growing,
and you know that someday
all those mistakes
are gonna turn him
into a smart guy.
That's pretty forgiving,
when you think about what these
people left us to clean up.
I guess I've always had
an attraction to this era.
And over the years,
I've gotten comfortable here.
You know, when no one
came for me, I...
had to make peace with the fact
that this was home now.
Hell, I didn't even
know if the Orville
survived the battle
with the Kaylon.
Look, Gordon, I can't imagine
how hard this has been for you.
But, Jesus Christ, you're
a Union officer.
And I wouldn't be doing my job
if I didn't point out--
Please, please, don't
say it, please.
Temporal law. Stay invisible.
Don't interact with anyone.
If we make it back,
you're gonna have to
answer for this.
You know that.
(sighs)
(turns off engine)
I'm not going back with you.
-What?
-What do you mean?
Come inside.
-Sweetie?
-(keys jingle)
-WOMAN: Hi, baby. Hi.
-GORDON: Hi.
Oh. Who are your friends?
-This is Ed and Kelly.
-Hi.
This is my son Edward,
and my wife Laura.
(Laura giggles)
(sighs)
(monitor beeping)
I believe I have located
the nearest dysonium deposit.
It appears to be six kilometers
below the crust.
Can you get a lock
on the optimal drilling site?
I believe so.
Increasing scan resolution
will take a moment.
What kind of music do you like?
-What?
-(scanner beeping)
There is a suitable bore site
23.7 kilometers from our
present position.
That's a good hike.
We could use some
transportation.
Look.
(rock guitar playing)
I have an idea.
(rock music playing)
(indistinct chatter)
♪ Yeah, you got ♪
♪ Satin shoes ♪
♪ Yeah, you got... ♪
Two of those, please.
Damn. That's straight
bourbon, honey.
Yeah, and I'm from Texas.
Is this your boyfriend?
Oh, my god, no.
I mean...
no, this is my...
brother.
I'm Sam. This is RJ.
I'm Charly, this is Isaac.
A pleasure to meet you.
What are some of your hobbies?
So listen, you, uh...
you got a couple
bikes out there?
Two Screamin' Eagle V-Rods.
Ooh, yeah, those are beauties.
I, um, don't suppose
you'd let us
borrow them for a few hours?
(laughing)
Your sister's got some big ol'
balls on her, doesn't she?
Negative. Her anatomical
construct is comprised of--
So, tell me...
who's the strongest guy in here?
(spluttering)
That would probably
be, uh... me.
He's fulla shit. It's
Richie over there.
Okay. How about this:
If my brother here
can beat Richie
in an arm-wrestling match,
you give us your bikes.
(laughing)
-Are you kiddin' me?
-Is it a bet?
Well, what do we
get if you lose?
I lose...
you choose.
♪ I've been beggin' ♪
♪ On my knees ♪
♪ I've been kickin' ♪
♪ Help me please ♪
(rock guitar playing)
Try to make this believable.
Understood, Ensign.
Don't call me... never mind.
Okay.
On my mark.
Aaannnd...
-Go!
-(bikers cheering)
Oh, no, I am losing.
BIKERS: Ohh!
It would appear
this is not one of your hobbies.
Better luck next time.
♪♪
So, I was singing at this
little pub back in New York,
and, uh, one night this awkward
kind of dorky guy walks in--
-Oh, come on!
-And...
And he's all alone,
and he's clapping louder
than anyone,
so obviously you know
what my first thought is,
-weirdo loner, creepy guy...
-(Gordon laughs)
...who's probably gonna ask
if he can buy me a drink.
-Which of course I do.
-Which of course he does.
And, so I'm like--
Dad, can I have
some more juice?
Of course you can, pal.
You want my help?
No, I got it.
Okay.
LAURA: So, I'm like, you know,
ten seconds away
from blowing him off
and walking to my car,
and then he starts talking
to me about my music.
And... (sighs)
it was so immediately
clear that he...
got it.
You know, he was really hearing
what I was trying to do up there
and-and-and understood
why it was the most important
thing in my life.
You know, a lot of guys
had come to my shows,
and-and thrown out compliments
trying to score, but with him...
I-I had no intention
of having sex with her.
I thought she was ugly, really.
-(laughing) Stop. Let me finish.
-GORDON: Okay.
He, he just really cared
about getting to know me.
You know, and so I thought,
hey, not my usual type,
but... (laughs)
what the hell, give it a shot.
I-- I had just broken up
with this guy Greg,
and the last thing that I wanted
was another douchebag--
But she went out
with me anyway.
That's right, yeah.
Look at us.
Seven years later,
that douchebag's my husband.
-I'm her douchebag.
-(laughs)
Well, this is a very
delicious lunch. Thank you.
Sure.
So, uh, how long have you
been in aviation?
-Five years.
-Ten years.
-Seems like five, doesn't it?
-It does.
That's why I said five
'cause it seems like it.
But yeah, ten years.
And Gordon tells me that you,
uh, work out of the Boston area.
You must be Sox fans.
Yeah, yeah, I mean,
it gets cold out there,
so, socks are, um...
-Socks are important.
-Mm.
(electronic humming)
Hey. Bortus is asking
for a shipwide status report.
-How we doing down here?
-Uh, slow but steady.
Would you hand me
that phase modulator?
You think we're gonna be able
to make it home?
Well, Orville's a tough ship.
If Isaac and Charly
get the dysonium,
she'll make it.
-(groans)
-What's wrong?
I tweaked a muscle
in my upper back.
Acts up sometimes.
I've been meaning
to see Dr. Finn,
I've just been so busy.
-Where?
-Right shoulder?
Want me to see if
I can get at it?
That's very nice,
but I've tried.
With a Xelayan?
Well, no.
Okay, take a stab at it.
Holy shit.
Hang on, I feel it.
Oh, my god...
Oh, my god.
Ahh!
-Yep.
-Ahh!
-Sorry, did that hurt?
-No. No, no.
Keep going, keep going.
(exhales)
Wow, how long you known
how to do this?
I don't know how to do this.
Ahh! Whoo!
-TALLA KEYALI: Yep.
-(John oohing and ahhing)
(John laughs)
Ahh! It's like a 50 G-force,
completely focused
and controlled.
Oh, my god!
Ah, you gotta be kidding me
with this shit.
Yep, there it is.
Got it.
Better?
(dogs barking in distance)
Can we talk now?
Yeah. We can talk.
Look, I understand that you
got a raw deal, I really do.
But I want to hear a goddamn
good explanation
for what's happening,
because the way I see it,
we oughta haul your ass
back to the ship right now
and throw you in the brig.
-Shut up.
-Excuse me, Lieutenant?
No. No, I-I'm not
your lieutenant.
I'm not your helmsman,
I'm not your crew.
I'm Gordon Malloy,
and this is my house.
Gordon. You're guilty of
about 50 counts
of temporal contamination.
You broke the law, and god knows
what the consequences...
Screw the law!
I spent three years
obeying the law.
I hid in an abandoned cabin
in the woods of Connecticut,
and I did my goddamn duty.
I stayed invisible. I didn't--
I didn't see anyone,
I didn't go anywhere.
You know what I ate?
Animals. Yeah.
I was holding my weapon
when I got sent back,
and I used it to kill animals.
You wanna talk
about breaking the law?
Here it's no big deal,
but in our time?
I'm a serial murderer, folks.
You know what that
does to your head?
So, after three years,
I said the hell with it.
Temporal law can blow me.
Yeah, it looks fine on paper,
but the Union has no idea
what it's like to be
trapped, no idea.
So... so I went looking for her.
And I found her.
And I made a life for myself.
And I will not let you make me
feel like shit for doing it.
I'm a human being.
We're social creatures.
Without each other, we die.
Was I supposed to die?
To protect the timeline? Yes.
Maybe this is how it's supposed
to be! Who's to say?
Who's to say I shouldn't be able
to do whatever I want?
Oh. It seems you really have
acclimated to this century.
When you joined the fleet,
you took an oath to the Union.
You're here. You're here!
Which means the Union
still exists in the future.
-If anything was gonna happen...
-No.
it already happened.
-That's how the physics works.
-No.
No. The timeline is okay.
You're deluding yourself.
Nobody really understands
time travel.
According to Isaac,
it's all still in flux.
He says observer interaction
is still a variable,
and until we act one
way or the other,
all timelines are possible.
How do you know that your son
won't grow up to start a war
that could delay
or even prevent Union emergence?
Or maybe,
maybe one of his descendants
helps create it.
Or, or maybe even gives
birth to you.
Or to me.
That's my point.
Gordon, without knowing,
we can't interfere.
We don't have the wisdom,
we don't have the foresight.
You may have done irreparable
damage already, we don't know.
But the longer you're here,
the greater the risk.
According to Isaac,
we're existi--
Oh, yeah, and-and Isaac's always
been trustworthy, hasn't he?
-Oh, Jesus, Gordon, come on--
-What?
What? H-he helped the Kaylon
kill thousands of people.
That we know for sure.
So, a verifiable crime is,
is less serious
than a hypothetical one?
Nice priorities.
You have to come with us.
Forget it.
You sent that message.
You wanted us to come
take you home.
We're here.
Ten years ago I wanted it!
More than anything
in the galaxy.
But, not now.
You took too long.
And, I'm happy here.
LAURA: Gordon?
I think you need to go.
♪♪
GORDON:
That's the truth. All of it.
My...
My god, say something.
I know.
You...
what?
I...
I know.
Somehow I think I-I've
always known.
There's just something
about you that's...
different.
It's this energy that
surrounds you.
How you see the world.
(deep breath)
The way you are with me.
Even when the pandemic came...
you knew.
When everything around us seemed
like it was falling apart...
you told me it was
gonna be okay.
And, you know what?
I believed you.
Because...
you know.
Don't you?
And it...
it doesn't change
the way you feel?
About us?
You mean because you've been
lying to me our entire life?
Laura, if I had told you...
It would've been useless.
Well, would it?
I honestly don't know.
I suppose that's why
it was meant to happen now.
When I was ready to hear it.
And I know it's the truth.
I fell in love with you...
three centuries after
you were gone.
Where do we go from here?
They want to take me back.
And...
what do you want?
I want you.
♪♪
(tranquil music playing)
(electronics chirping)
The entry point coordinates
are directly beneath
that structure.
Come on.
We're in luck. It looks vacant.
WOMAN:
Excuse me.
Hi. I'm Nancy Weber.
This is my listing.
Hi.
Are you interested
in the house?
We, um...
Yes.
Yeah, we're-- we're interested.
Don't tell me. Young couple
looking to buy their first home.
You... you guessed it.
Well, you picked a good one.
The house, I mean.
Although the guy is
pretty cute too. (giggles)
So cute.
Come on in.
You going for a hike?
-ISAAC: A hike?
-NANCY: The backpack.
BURKE: Yes. We are.
This afternoon.
So, how long have you
two been a couple?
Oh... few years.
Right, honey?
Affirmative. Our pairing
has flourished for some time.
Well, this is the
main living area.
Plenty of room for just
the two of you,
or if you're looking
to start a family.
I'm assuming you don't
have kids yet?
Negative.
Insemination has yet to occur.
Jesus Christ.
Is there a, um, basement
of some kind?
Yes, there is.
Could we see it?
Of course.
The previous owners
used this primarily for storage,
but with a little work,
it's a perfect space
for a game room or an office,
or even a small home gym.
The house is really great,
and the price is fair.
Could we have a moment alone
to discuss it between ourselves?
Absolutely. Take your time.
And I really think
you're gonna love it, trust me.
Okay. We have to do this fast.
(electronics chirping)
The dysonium deposit
is bearing 0-0-6 mark 17,
relative to the geometric center
of the Earth.
Once the device is active,
we will need to continuously
adjust the trajectory
in order to avoid
petrological disequilibrium.
You mean don't crack the egg.
A crude analogy.
All right, let's fire it up.
(electronic chiming and humming)
(energy pulsing)
The geodetic probe
has entered the crust.
Descending at 56.7
meters per second.
-Tectonic stress is rising.
-I see it.
Rotate descent vector to bearing
0-0-7 for eight seconds, now.
Rotating vector.
(alert beeping)
A pressure gradient is shifting
in a nearby aquifer.
Pull back 20 meters
and redirect laterally.
Acknowledged.
The gradient has stabilized.
Tectonic stress is nominal.
Redirect, bearing
0-1-1 mark 12.
(gears whirring)
Density transition confirmed.
We have breached the mantle.
(sighs)
Okay. Now we wait.
I like your hair.
Okay, what the hell
are you doing?
Please clarify.
You've been asking
all these random questions,
like, "What music do you like,
what sports do you play?"
You're acting totally weird.
What's going on?
I am attempting to initiate
a conversation with you.
Why? If you have something
to say, just say it.
Don't dick around
with all this small talk.
Very well.
During my observations
of biological customs,
I have seen many instances
of recognitional declaration
when one individual
performs a service for another.
The humans call it
a "thank you."
Yeah?
I never said "thank you."
For my reactivation.
Oh.
In effect, you saved my life.
Yep. Sure. I guess I did.
Thank you.
The appropriate response is,
"You are welcome."
Yeah, well, let's
skip that part.
I do not understand.
Do you not wish to avail
yourself of my thanks?
Isaac, I was doing my duty.
And I can promise you,
I didn't like it one bit.
I was separating my job
from my personal feelings,
that's all.
I see.
You still harbor negative
sentiments toward me.
We have to work together.
Every day.
But that doesn't change
what you did,
and who I lost because of it.
Does your machine brain have
any concept of what love is?
I do not understand.
Well, I'll help you.
Amanda wasn't just
my best friend.
I loved her.
And I never got to
say it to her.
She was someone I could've seen
spending the rest
of my life with.
And I have no idea if she felt
the same way.
I waited too long to ask.
And then she was gone.
You took her life,
and by doing that,
you took mine.
Or what mine could've been.
So yeah. I still harbor
"negative sentiments."
Nonetheless... I thank you.
(monitor chirps)
Extraction complete.
The plasma drill has
been deactivated.
Okay. Let's seal it up, quick.
(energy pulsing)
Let's get outta here.
So, what do you
say? Is it home?
We just broke up.
(family chuckling)
What did you think the words
"pay per view" meant?
I never thought about it.
I thought it was
like some foreign expression
like "a la carte"
or "in escrow."
-(canned laughter)
-(Gordon chuckling)
-ACTOR 1: Well, it is not.
-ACTOR 2: Oh, man!
(doorbell rings)
ACTOR 1: Ah, so,
what's your good news?
ACTOR 2:
Oh, I got fired.
(canned laughter)
-ACTOR 1: Jack!
-(TV clicks off)
No.
Whatever you think
you're gonna do,
you can forget it
and get the hell out of here.
-Gordon--
-I said get out!
Gordon, what's going on?
They're here to take me away.
What?
You can't stay here,
and you know it.
Well, then you should've gotten
your goddamn dates right,
and shown up ten years ago!
I'm not leaving!
You don't have a choice.
What... you're gonna
haul me outta here by force?
If I have to.
Okay.
All right. I'll go.
We all will.
I'm sorry, Gordon. No.
I'm not leaving here
without my family.
Daddy, what's wrong?
It's okay, honey.
What, are you gonna kill us?
No. Just a heavy stun.
And when you wake up,
we'll be gone.
And we will disappear
so deep into this world,
that you won't have a prayer
of finding us again, ever.
So, you have two choices:
the door or the floor.
Take your pick.
Gordon, you know
what you're doing is--
ISAAC:
Isaac to Captain Mercer.
-(comscanner chirps)
-Go ahead.
ISAAC: We have secured
the dysonium,
and we are returning
to the shuttle.
Acknowledged. Mercer out.
(comscanner beeps)
All right. We're bringing
you home.
I don't think you heard me.
I told you I am not--
From 2015.
What...?
Farther back down the timeline,
you're there, asking
for our help.
It's a ten-year jump.
We'll make it.
No. No, no, no, you can't.
Gordon, what does he mean?
He means... going back for me.
Ten years in the past.
What?
-No, what about...
-GORDON: Us?
There won't be any us.
No us, no Edward.
No baby.
What kind of people are you?
I'm so sorry. But this reality
was never supposed to exist.
Our reality? My
son's? My baby's?
(scoffs)
You're saying they won't exist?
I...
I don't know.
That's the reason it's illegal
and immoral
to play god with history.
Who's playing god? Huh?
The only one playing
god here is you.
Is it illegal to erase people
from existence?
Because I call that murder.
Goodbye, Gordon.
We'll see you soon.
Ed! I'm begging you...
please don't do this!
Please don't take
my family away!
Jesus Christ, if you
have any shred of decency,
please don't do this!
Ed!
(melancholy music playing)
(sharp exhale)
♪♪
What's going to happen?
Daddy, are we in trouble?
No.
Listen...
No matter what...
I will always love you both.
Do you understand?
Always.
This family...
is stronger than time.
And no matter what happens...
no one can take that
away from us.
I believe you.
(exhales)
♪♪
(energetic music playing)
Mercer to Lamarr.
What's our status?
We managed to extract
about eight kilos of dysonium
from the geodetic
probe, Captain.
Will that be enough?
It'll be tight, but
yeah, I think so.
ISAAC: The revised temporal
coordinates
have been encoded and locked.
Okay. Let's try this again.
Open the dysonium
injection valves.
(rumbling)
ISAAC: Power couplings
are linked.
I am initiating the
temporal field.
(electronic whirring)
Core is stable.
Full power in five,
four, three, two...
(machines powering down)
-(comms chirps)
-Report.
LAMARR:
Stand by, Captain.
It's not a bull's-eye,
but we're close.
Gordon arrived about
a month ago.
All right.
Let's bring him home.
(dramatic music playing)
(hydraulics whirring)
Ah, man.
It is good to be back.
It's good to have you back.
I'm glad we...
I'm glad we made it.
I never doubted
you for a second.
What?
We'll talk about it later.
It's completely shot.
Fried from the inside out.
Can you repair it?
If we had six months, maybe.
This isn't a quantum drive
we're talking about.
This is cutting-edge
temporal technology.
Maybe if Dr. Aronov
himself were here,
he could speed it along,
but he's not going to be born
for another three and
a half centuries.
Well, we don't really
have a choice, do we?
If it takes six months,
so be it. We have to try.
Can't just fly into the
future without it.
I am a goddamn idiot.
What do you mean?
That's exactly what we do.
(dramatic music playing)
We need the Aronov device
to travel to the past, yeah?
But, if we wanna travel
to the future,
we got a built-in method
right here.
We've had it the entire time.
Explain.
Whenever we're using
the quantum drive,
we're moving faster than light.
But the quantum field creates
a bubble around the ship,
isolating us from the normal
spacetime continuum.
Otherwise, we'd be subject
to Einsteinian relativity:
time dilation.
The closer we get to
the speed of light,
the faster time passes
outside the ship.
Well, don't you see?
We just shut down the field.
The very thing it's supposed
to prevent,
we just allow to happen.
We push the ship as
close as we can
to the speed of light,
and let Einstein take
care of the rest.
ISAAC: Without the
field in place,
such a speed would
put the Orville
at high risk of collision.
Even a particle of
interstellar dust
could compromise the hull.
We reroute every last drop
of available power
to the deflectors.
Even life support.
Hell, the whole trip won't take
but a couple of minutes.
There's a star, Alpha Tucanae,
about 200 light-years
away from Earth.
Charly plots a course
that avoids
all gaseous nebulas and
interstellar dust.
If we travel at 99.9999%
the speed of light,
we'll get there and back
in just a few minutes.
But on Earth,
400 years will have passed.
ISAAC: Precise calculations
will be required
to ensure
our arrival time is accurate.
Yeah, the math will
be your job, buddy. Enjoy that.
So, what do you think?
Do it.
(monitor beeping)
(dramatic music playing)
Status, Ensign?
Course laid in, sir.
Helm has been re-calibrated
for relativistic velocity.
Everyone buckle up.
Bridge to Lamarr.
On your mark.
Acknowledged, Captain.
Gordon. Engage quantum drive.
(epic music playing)
Hard to believe we're watching
decades pass out there.
♪♪
Approaching Alpha Tucanae.
-John?
-All clear.
Decelerating.
Two hundred years
down, 200 to go.
-Course set for Earth.
-Bring us about.
Aye, sir.
Lamarr. On your mark.
Engage main drive.
(thrusters humming)
Lamarr to bridge.
Gordon, switch to
computer control.
Implement Isaac's presets.
Done.
Take us home, baby.
(epic music playing)
Approaching Earth.
Magnify.
That's more like it.
Talla?
Union Central is
responding, sir.
We have permission to dock.
(tranquil music playing)
(sighs)
I don't even know what to say.
It must have been
the hardest thing
you've ever had to
do in your life.
Yeah, that's an
understatement.
(scoffs)
I just...
I can't believe I would
be that selfish.
I mean, to-to risk the timeline,
to threaten you...
You were tested to a degree
that none of us have ever been.
Who's to say that we
wouldn't have done the same?
A family does powerful
things to a person.
Look...
I know that...
there's nothing that's gonna
make you feel better.
But, for what it's worth...
you did the right thing.
As hard as it was,
you put your duty first.
Yeah, you're right.
I don't feel better.
There are two children
who will never be born.
And a future that will.
Hey. How long has it been
since the three of us did this?
Long time.
Just like the old days.
Well, in the old days, we would
have finished off that bottle
and drained two more.
Yeah, well, we were younger.
You're right. Let's
try for three.
(tranquil music playing)
(theme song playing)
Captioned by Point.360